TRƯỜNG I-Organisation
ĐẠI I-Organisation
HỌC I-Organisation
Y I-Organisation
DƯỢC I-Organisation
TP. I-Organisation
HỒ I-Organisation
CHÍ I-Organisation
MINH I-Organisation

Y O
Học O
TP. I-Location
Hồ I-Location
Chí I-Location
Minh I-Location
* O
Tập O
12 O
* O
Phụ O
bản O
Số O
1 O
* O
2008 I-DateTime
Nghiên O
cứu O
Y O
học O

Bên O
cạnh O
những O
hạn O
chế O
về O
mặt O
kỹ O
thuật O
xét O
nghiệm O
, O
PTDMP I-DiagnosticProcedure
không O
dùng O
chẩn O
đoán O
nguyên O
nhân O
dày O
, O
u I-Symptom_and_Disease
màng I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
không I-Symptom_and_Disease
có I-Symptom_and_Disease
TDMP I-Symptom_and_Disease
. O

2 O
. O
Nghiên O
cứu O
mối O
liên O
quan O
giữa O
số O
lượng O
CD3 I-DiagnosticProcedure
, O
CD4 I-DiagnosticProcedure
, O
CD& O
và O
tỉ I-DiagnosticProcedure
lệ I-DiagnosticProcedure
CD4/CD3 I-DiagnosticProcedure
, O
CDS/CDA O
, O
CD4/CD§ O
với O
kết O
quả O
phản I-DiagnosticProcedure
ứng I-DiagnosticProcedure
Mantoux I-DiagnosticProcedure
. O

So O
sánh O
kết O
quả O
thu O
được O
với O
kết O
quả O
của O
các O
nghiên O
cứu O
trước O
để O
đề O
xuất O
tính O
khả O
thi O
của O
việc O
áp O
dụng O
phương O
pháp O
nhuộm I-DiagnosticProcedure
huỳnh I-DiagnosticProcedure
quang I-DiagnosticProcedure
trrong O
thực O
tế O
. O
Trong O
những O
năm O
cuối O
của O
thập I-DateTime
kỷ I-DateTime
70 I-DateTime
người O
fa O
lạc O
quan O
tuyên O
bố O
có O
thể O
đầy O
lùi O
và O
thanh O
toán O
bệnh I-Symptom_and_Disease
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
, O
nhưng O
do O
nhiều O
nguyên O
nhân O
khác O
nhau O
trong O
đó O
quan O
trọng O
là O
sự O
kháng O
thuốc O
của O
trực O
khuẩn O
lao O
và O
đại O
dịch O
HIV/AIDS I-Symptom_and_Disease
làm O
cho O
bệnh I-Symptom_and_Disease
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
quay O
trở O
lại O
và O
ngày O
càng O
gia O
tăng O
trên O
thế O
giới O
. O
Năm I-DateTime
2007 I-DateTime
, O
TCYTTG I-Organisation
xếp O
Việt I-Location
Nam I-Location
là O
1 O
trong O
7 O
nước O
ở O
khu I-Location
vực I-Location
Tây I-Location
Thái I-Location
Bình I-Location
Dương I-Location
có O
mức O
độ O
lưu O
hành O
bệnh I-Symptom_and_Disease
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
cao O
và O
là O
một O
trong O
ba O
quốc O
gia O
( O
Trung I-Location
Quốc I-Location
, O
Philippin I-Location
, O
Việt I-Location
Nam I-Location
) O
chiếm O
khoảng O
90% O
tổng O
số O
những O
trường O
hợp O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
mới I-Symptom_and_Disease
trong O
khu O
vực O
[178] O
. O

Tỉ O
lệ O
các O
trường O
hợp O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
trong O
khu O
vực O
này O
từng O
giảm O
xuống O
vào O
khoảng O
1 O
, O
% O
vào O
trước O
1985 I-DateTime
nhưng O
đã O
tăng O
lên O
tới O
7 O
, O
%/năm O
trong O
những O
năm O
gần O
đây O
. O

BỘ I-Organisation
GIÁO I-Organisation
DỤC I-Organisation
VÀ I-Organisation
ĐÀO I-Organisation
TẠO I-Organisation
BỘ I-Organisation
Y I-Organisation
TẾ I-Organisation

Mục O
tiêu O
: O
đánh O
giá O
hiệu O
quả O
của O
STMP I-DiagnosticProcedure
bằng I-DiagnosticProcedure
kim I-DiagnosticProcedure
trong O
việc O
chẩn O
đoán O
TDMP I-Symptom_and_Disease
do I-Symptom_and_Disease
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
tại O
khoa I-Organisation
hô I-Organisation
hấp I-Organisation
bệnh I-Organisation
diện I-Organisation
Nhân I-Organisation
Dân I-Organisation
Gia I-Organisation
Định I-Organisation

Sau O
khi O
thử O
nghiệm O
PCR I-DiagnosticProcedure
ra O
đời O
( O
1985 I-DateTime
) O
, O
ở O
nước O
ngoài O
đã O
có O
một O
số O
nghiên O
cứu O
ứng O
dụng O
thử O
nghiệm O
này O
để O
phát O
hiện O
và O
xác O
định O
loại O
vi O
khuẩn O
lao O
trong O
chẩn O
đoán O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
- O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
màng I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
. O

Tỷ O
lệ O
bệnh O
nhân O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
mới O
mắc O
có O
vi O
khuẩn O
kháng O
acid O
( O
AFB” O
) O
đang O
điều O
trị O
tại O
tổ O
chống O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
của O
quận I-Location
Ninh I-Location
Kiểu I-Location
, O
TPCT I-Location
có O
KTTĐTH O
đúng O
về O
phòng O
ngừa O
và O
tuân O
thủ O
điều O
trị O
là O
bao O
nhiêu O
và O
các O
yếu O
tố O
về O
tuổi O
, O
giới O
tính O
, O
nghề O
nghiệp O
, O
trình O
độ O
học O
vấn O
ảnh O
hưởng O
đến O
kiến O
thức O
, O
thái O
độ O
, O
thực O
hành O
của O
bệnh O
nhân O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
này O
hay O
không? O

1 O
. O
So O
sánh O
đặc O
điểm O
lâm O
sàng O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
phôi I-Symptom_and_Disease
tái O
phát O
với O
viêm I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
mắc I-Symptom_and_Disease
phải I-Symptom_and_Disease
cộng I-Symptom_and_Disease
đông I-Symptom_and_Disease
ở O
bệnh O
nhân O
có O
tiền O
sử O
đã O
khỏi O
hay O
hoàn O
thành O
điều O
trị O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
phối I-Symptom_and_Disease
. O

Cơ O
sở O
thực O
hiện O
nghiên O
cứu O
: O
tràn I-Symptom_and_Disease
dịch I-Symptom_and_Disease
màng I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
( O
TDMP I-Symptom_and_Disease
) O
do O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
là O
bệnh O
khá O
thường O
sặp O
trong O
thực O
hành O
lâm O
sàng O
chuyên O
khoa I-Organisation
hô I-Organisation
hấp I-Organisation
. O

Dịch O
HIV I-Symptom_and_Disease
đã O
làm O
thay O
đổi O
bệnh O
cảnh O
lâm O
sàng O
và O
làm O
đảo O
lộn O
tình O
hình O
chống O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
trên O
toàn O
thế O
giới O
. O

Ước O
tính O
có O
khoảng O
170.000 O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
kháng I-Symptom_and_Disease
đa I-Symptom_and_Disease
thuốc I-Symptom_and_Disease
tử O
vong O
trong O
năm I-DateTime
2012 I-DateTime
, O
tương O
đối O
cao O
so O
với O
450.000 O
trường O
hợp O
mắc O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
kháng I-Symptom_and_Disease
đa I-Symptom_and_Disease
thuốc I-Symptom_and_Disease
! O
. O

Soi I-DiagnosticProcedure
trực I-DiagnosticProcedure
tiếp I-DiagnosticProcedure
84 O
, O
% O
và O
cấy I-DiagnosticProcedure
là O
15 O
, O
% O
. O

Phú I-Location
Nhuận I-Location
( O
PN I-Location
) O
là O
- O
trung O
tâm O
của O
TP.HCM I-Location
. O

