Tại O
bệnh I-Organisation
viện I-Organisation
Phạm I-Organisation
Ngọc I-Organisation
Thạch I-Organisation
, O
các O
xét O
nghiệm O
nhuộm I-DiagnosticProcedure
soi I-DiagnosticProcedure
AFB I-DiagnosticProcedure
, O
cây I-DiagnosticProcedure
dịch I-DiagnosticProcedure
màng I-DiagnosticProcedure
phối I-DiagnosticProcedure
và O
giải I-DiagnosticProcedure
phẫu I-DiagnosticProcedure
bệnh I-DiagnosticProcedure
mô I-DiagnosticProcedure
bệnh I-DiagnosticProcedure
học I-DiagnosticProcedure
từ O
mảnh O
mô O
sinh O
thiết O
mù O
màng O
phối O
đã O
được O
ứng O
dụng O
trong O
chân O
đoán O
lao I-DiagnosticProcedure
màng I-DiagnosticProcedure
phối I-DiagnosticProcedure
. O

Xuất O
phát O
từ O
thực O
tế O
trên O
, O
CTCLQG O
phối O
hợp O
với O
Trung I-Organisation
tâm I-Organisation
Dự I-Organisation
phòng I-Organisation
và I-Organisation
kiêm I-Organisation
soát I-Organisation
bệnh I-Organisation
tật I-Organisation
Hoa I-Organisation
Kỳ I-Organisation
( O
CDC) I-Organisation
và O
WHO I-Organisation
triển O
khai O
nghiên O
cứu O
kiểm O
đếm O
( O
inventory O
study O
) O
theo O
phương O
pháp O
của O
WHO I-Organisation
nhằm O
ước O
tính O
mức O
độ O
báo O
cáo O
thiếu O
các O
ca O
mắc O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
trong O
hệ O
thống O
giám O
sát O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
quốc O
gia O
tại O
Việt I-Location
Nam I-Location
. O

Ở O
Việt I-Location
Nam I-Location
, O
bệnh I-Symptom_and_Disease
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
cũng O
đang O
là O
một O
mối O
đe O
doạ O
lớn O
đối O
với O
sức O
khoẻ O
cộng O
đồng O
. O

Để O
chẩn O
đoán O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
màng I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
có O
thể O
dựa O
vào O
nhiều O
xét O
nghiệm O
khác O
nhau O
: O
- O
IDR I-DiagnosticProcedure

Nếu O
khởi O
đầu O
đại O
dịch O
, O
tỉ O
lệ O
nhiễm O
HIV I-Symptom_and_Disease
chủ O
yếu O
ở O
đối O
tượng O
nghiện O
chích O
ma O
túy O
và O
tiếp O
tục O
chủ O
yếu O
ở O
đối O
tượng O
này O
tính O
cho O
đến O
thời O
điểm O
này O
, O
thì O
trên O
đối O
tượng O
hành O
nghề O
mại O
dâm O
nữ O
có O
tỉ O
lệ O
dao O
động O
từ O
2 O
- O
3% O
trong O
các O
năm O
trước O
, O
đã O
gia O
tăng O
đột O
biến O
trong O
những O
năm O
gần O
đây O
: O
10 O
, O
% O
( O
1999 I-DateTime
) O
và O
20 O
, O
% O
( O
2000 I-DateTime
) O
. O

Theo O
báo O
cáo O
của O
ủy O
ban O
phòng O
chống O
AIDS I-Symptom_and_Disease
quốc O
gia O
thì O
tỷ O
lệ O
mắc O
lao/HIV I-Symptom_and_Disease
năm I-DateTime
1994 I-DateTime
là O
24 O
, O
% O
. O

Các O
bệnh O
nhân O
có O
AFB I-DiagnosticProcedure
đàm I-DiagnosticProcedure
âm O
tính O
khi O
được O
nội O
soi O
phế O
quản O
có O
nhiều O
hình O
ảnh O
tổn O
thương O
gợi O
ý O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
và O
tỷ O
lệ O
cao O
được O
chân O
đoán O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
dựa O
vào O
xét O
nghiệm O
vi I-DiagnosticProcedure
sinh I-DiagnosticProcedure
dịch O
rửa O
phế O
quản O
và O
tổn O
thương O
viêm O
lao O
trên O
giải I-DiagnosticProcedure
phẫu I-DiagnosticProcedure
bệnh I-DiagnosticProcedure
[ O
15] O
, O
16] O
. O

Zolreh O
Pessaran O
và O
Cs O
( O
2005 I-DateTime
- O
Iran O
) O
NC O
ở O
bênh O
nhân O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
cho O
thấy O
: O
ứ O
lệ O
phần O
trăm O
của O
CD3 I-DiagnosticProcedure
, O
CDI O
, O
CD4/CD§ O
đều O
giảm O
, O
còn O
CD8 I-DiagnosticProcedure
lại O
tăng O
. O

Trong O
đó O
, O
khu O
vực O
Tây I-Location
Thái I-Location
Bình I-Location
Dương I-Location
chiếm O
1/3 O
số O
bệnh O
nhân O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
kháng I-Symptom_and_Disease
đa I-Symptom_and_Disease
thuốc I-Symptom_and_Disease
trên O
toàn O
cầu O
, O
kế O
tiếp O
là O
Đông I-Location
Nam I-Location
Á I-Location
và O
sau O
đó O
là O
khu O
vực O
Đông I-Location
Âu I-Location
và O
Châu I-Location
Phi I-Location
7] O
. O

2 O
) O
Tìm O
hiểu O
mối O
liên O
quan O
giữa O
số O
lượng O
các O
tế O
bào O
miễn O
dịch O
với O
tình O
trạng O
mắc O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
của O
bệnh O
nhân O
. O

Chương O
Trình O
AIDS I-Symptom_and_Disease
của O
Liên I-Organisation
Hiệp I-Organisation
Quốc I-Organisation
và O
Tổ I-Organisation
Chức I-Organisation
Y I-Organisation
Tế I-Organisation
Thế I-Organisation
Giới I-Organisation
ước O
tính O
đến O
cuối O
năm I-DateTime
2000 I-DateTime
có O
khoảng O
36 O
, O
triệu O
người O
bị O
nhiễm O
HIV I-Symptom_and_Disease
hoặc O
bị O
AIDS I-Symptom_and_Disease
. O

