Theo O
số O
liệu O
công O
bố O
của O
Tổ I-Organisation
chức I-Organisation
Y I-Organisation
tế I-Organisation
Thế I-Organisation
giới I-Organisation
( O
TCYTTG I-Organisation
) O
năm I-DateTime
2004 I-DateTime
, O
ước O
tính O
hiện O
có O
khoảng O
2.2 O
tỷ O
người O
đã O
nhiễm O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
( O
chiếm O
1/3 O
dân O
số O
thế O
giới O
) O
mỗi O
năm O
có O
khoảng O
9 O
triệu O
bệnh O
nhân O
mắc O
bệnh I-Symptom_and_Disease
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
mới I-Symptom_and_Disease
và O
hơn O
2 O
triệu O
người O
chết O
do O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
, O
trong O
đó O
khoảng O
95% O
số O
bệnh O
nhân O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
và O
98% O
số O
người O
chết O
do O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
ở O
các O
nước O
nghèo O
, O
có O
thu O
nhập O
thấp O
; O
75% O
số O
bệnh O
nhân O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
ở O
độ O
tuổi O
lao O
động O
[6] O
. O

Tại O
Việt I-Location
Nam I-Location
, O
các O
xét O
nghiệm O
cần O
thiết O
chân O
đoán O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
không O
đủ O
, O
hiệu O
quả O
chẩn O
đoán O
của O
phân I-DiagnosticProcedure
tích I-DiagnosticProcedure
dịch I-DiagnosticProcedure
màng I-DiagnosticProcedure
phổi I-DiagnosticProcedure
còn O
thấp O
. O

Nhìn O
chung O
sử O
dụng O
các O
kỹ O
thuật O
nuôi I-DiagnosticProcedure
cấy I-DiagnosticProcedure
, O
kỹ O
thuật O
PCR I-DiagnosticProcedure
và O
các O
kỹ O
thuật O
hiện O
đại O
khác O
để O
chẩn O
đoán O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
AFB(-) I-Symptom_and_Disease
trong O
cộng O
đồng O
là O
chưa O
phù O
hợp O
với O
điều O
kiện O
và O
tình O
hình O
bệnh I-Symptom_and_Disease
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
của O
các O
nước O
đang O
phát O
triển O
[67] O
. O

