TRƯỜNG I-Organisation
ĐẠI I-Organisation
HỌC I-Organisation
Y I-Organisation
DƯỢC I-Organisation
TP. I-Organisation
HỒ I-Organisation
CHÍ I-Organisation
MINH I-Organisation

Ở O
thành I-Location
phố I-Location
Hồ I-Location
Chí I-Location
Minh I-Location
năm I-DateTime
1994 I-DateTime
tỷ O
lệ O
người O
có O
huyết O
thanh O
HIV(+) I-Symptom_and_Disease
trong O
quần O
thể O
bệnh O
nhân O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
được O
ghi O
nhận O
là O
0 O
, O
% O
con O
số O
này O
là O
4% O
vào O
cuối O
năm I-DateTime
2000 I-DateTime
[91] O
. O

Kết O
luận O
: O
chậm O
trễ O
chẩn O
đoán O
của O
bệnh O
nhân O
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
phổi I-Symptom_and_Disease
tại O
quận I-Location
Gò I-Location
Vấp I-Location
là O
uấn O
đề O
cần O
quan O
tâm O
trong O
giáo O
dục O
uà O
chăm O
sóc O
sức O
khỏe O
cộng O
đồng O
. O

Nhìn O
chung O
, O
MDH O
trong O
bệnh I-Symptom_and_Disease
lao I-Symptom_and_Disease
đã O
và O
đang O
tập O
trung O
vào O
một O
số O
lĩnh O
vực O
sau O
: O

Kết O
quả O
: O
độ O
nhạy O
cảm O
của O
phết I-DiagnosticProcedure
lam I-DiagnosticProcedure
tìm I-DiagnosticProcedure
AFB I-DiagnosticProcedure
, O
PCR I-DiagnosticProcedure
tìm I-DiagnosticProcedure
vi I-DiagnosticProcedure
khuẩn I-DiagnosticProcedure
lao I-DiagnosticProcedure
trong O
dịch O
màng O
phối O
, O
cấy I-DiagnosticProcedure
dịch I-DiagnosticProcedure
màng I-DiagnosticProcedure
phối I-DiagnosticProcedure
theo O
phương O
pháp O
MGIT I-DiagnosticProcedure
và O
STMP I-DiagnosticProcedure
bằng I-DiagnosticProcedure
kim I-DiagnosticProcedure
theo O
thứ O
tự O
là O
0%; O
6 O
, O
%; O
18 O
. O
2% O
và O
62 O
. O
8% O
. O

